[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of "Gaiam Inspirations."
The statistics are staggering.
Worldwide, obesity has
doubled in the past 30 years.
In 1980, one in six
Americans were obese.
And today, that number
is one in three.
And whether it's 10
pounds or 100 pounds
that you're struggling with,
it's important to address what
got us here in the first place.
Joining me today to help us
crack the weight loss code
is author and medical
intuitive, Caroline Sutherland.
She's here to help us
understand our own body,
and really listen
to what we need
to live vibrant, healthy lives.
Welcome to the show.
Thanks for being here.
It's wonderful
to be here, Lisa.
Thanks so much for having me.
Oh, I'm so-- and your
energy is so abundant.
It's amazing that you--
I mean, you've just
been bouncing around all day.
So, you walk your talk.
I know that.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
I try to do that.
If you want to
have great energy,
you have to do some of the
simple follow-the-basics.
That's what we're
going to cover today.
So, let's talk a
little bit about how
we got to this place,
where you even said,
two in every three
people are overweight.
That's just-- that's
not the obesity scale,
but that are
actually overweight.
How did we get to this?
What do you
attribute to the fact
that Americans have
increased in weight so much?
Well, there are lots of
components to weight loss,
and I'm one of the few people
that feel that some really
practical suggestions.
And they don't include
calorie counting, and saying,
no, and over exercising.
There's some really
basic things that I like
to follow and teach people.
And one of the things
that is happening now
is we have so many refined
foods and so much exposure
to carbohydrates and GMO foods,
and just a heavy, heavy hand
with carbohydrates.
Not enough exercise, of course.
And then the other components
that we're going to get into,
about the hormone imbalances,
and so many other issues,
that people are just
simply not aware of.
And, I like to teach a
different method of weight loss.
It's far, far different
from everybody else.
All right.
So, I want to mention to
people, for sure, that this
is a critical conversation.
This is not about
losing 10 pounds.
making people feel
bad, if they are overweight.
This is a lifestyle.
We're not talking about diet--
-Yes.
--today.
We're talking about a way to
save your life at this point.
Well, you know what I love?
If you take it to
a higher level--
if you always take
everything to a higher level,
then it makes sense.
So, I'm all about
people fulfilling
their passion and their
destiny, and people
really living their best lives.
And when this happens, it's the
motivating factor, how people
will put these pieces together.
And I always say,
it's a very, very high
level of personal self-mastery.
I mean, mastery
over the emotions.
Mastery over what we're
putting in our mouth.
That's a very high level
of personal mastery.
And so, if we can
motivate people to say,
you'll have a great body.
And you'll have lots of stamina,
lots of energy, mental clarity.
You'll start feeling better.
Then, of course, the person
is motivated to do what they
want to do with their lives.
And so, there's always a payoff.
It's not just about, well, let's
stay away from these foods.
Right.
Let's make this maybe
be difficult or a bit
of a penance.
Let's make it fun
and interesting,
because the byproduct
is always going to be
greater energy for the person.
LISA GARR: Well, you've outlined
a great PowerPoint for us
in terms of being able
to make this simple
and to really digest
this information.
So, what are the
top five reasons
why you think people
are struggling
with this particular problem?
Well, the big one, of
course, is cravings.
You cannot stop a
craving, any more
than you can stop a sneeze.
So, it's a biological,
basic inbuilt
need that the person has.
And so, you have to
be able to teach them
how to stop those cravings.
And saying, no, is
not the way to do it.
Sitting and chewing on
celery sticks will not do it.
So, I have-- for
example, I have drops
that I encourage people to use.
I really encourage
people to respond
immediately to a sugar craving.
Always respond with a protein.
For example, if I had a
little blood sugar drop,
and knew that I
needed something,
I would never
respond with anything
that was sugary or sweet.
I would always respond
with a protein,
like a handful of walnuts,
or a cold chicken leg,
or a hard boiled egg--
LISA GARR: Now why is that?
--or something like that.
Because it's the
pancreas, you see.
The pancreas takes the
food and breaks it down,
and creates glucose out of it.
And the pancreas supplies
glucose to the brain.
And that's necessary for
any thinking or any acting.
It's all done with this supply
of glucose to the brain.
And that's what
the pancreas does.
It takes the food,
breaks it down,
and supplies it to the brain.
And, of course, the
most efficient supply
of glucose in the
brain is going to come
from the breakdown of protein.
-Is that right?
-Yes.
-OK.
So, that's the best
thing to reach for if you
have that blood sugar drop.
-Yes.
The bottom line is not to eat
the sugar in the first place,
so that the blood sugar
doesn't spike as much.
That's right.
To keep the balance
through the day.
Breakfast-- start with
a great breakfast.
You know the British were
always on to a great breakfast--
scrambled eggs, and kippers,
and all kinds of things--
LISA GARR: Porridge.
--porridge, that you
wouldn't ever think of having.
And we start our day with
coffee and a muffin--
LISA GARR: Doughnuts.
- --doughnut.
And we're wondering
why we have no energy,
and then the person needs
more caffeine, and so it goes.
Absolutely, absolutely.
All right.
Well, there are components to a
successful weight loss that you
have put together for
us, and most of it
has to do with identifying
what your food allergies are.
And, that's the first thing.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: So,
the first thing is the food
allergies and sensitivities.
And if you want to, we
can go into those now,
or I can just give
you the brief list.
Whatever you'd like to do.
LISA GARR: Yeah.
Let's start with the
brief list real quick,
and then we'll break
these down individually,
and give people a full
analysis of all of it.
OK.
So, food allergies.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: So, it's
knowing and understanding food
allergies and what they do.
And then, of course,
Candida yeast,
which I believe is really
in back of those cravings,
cravings for starches
and cravings for sugars.
LISA GARR: It's a big topic.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
And then keeping
the carbohydrate grams low.
That's the starch
and sugar, again.
Keeping that amount low.
And then exercise,
daily exercise.
Something that the person
would really like to do.
And then, of course, the fifth
component is hormone balancing.
LISA GARR: Now, let's start
off with the food allergies.
Yes.
LISA GARR: Why do you think that
people are allergic to foods
that we-- all of a sudden
allergic to foods--
that we've been
eating for centuries?
Well, it's related to stress.
So, if there's stress,
then the immune system
becomes suppressed, and
then we have way more
intolerance, more reactivity.
Not only are we
reacting to foods,
but we're reacting to chemicals,
and pollens, and things
in the air, that we didn't
before, when we didn't
have this high level of stress.
And also, multiple exposures.
If you think of a very
common sensitivity,
say, for example,
to wheat and flour
based products, the exposure
over and over exposed
to those particular
grains, that grain,
that causes a sensitivity.
The body just breaks
down and says,
you know, I can't
take this any longer.
You're giving me too
much too many times.
LISA GARR: Are people maybe
that are older more prone
to having an
intolerance, maybe 40, 50
years of eating and,
kind of, bludgeoning
the body with wheat products?
-That's right.
So, a person, I would
say, they can go right
through, with no
problems at all,
usually until about
the age of 40.
And that's when the gate closes.
At the age of 40, well,
we've got some problems here.
That is exactly
what happened to me.
And let's start
taking care of it.
But up until 40, you can,
kind of, hang out and do
pretty much whatever you want.
But as a person progresses in
age, because all of the body
processes, and the actual organs
themselves aren't functioning
at the optimum level
that they did when
we were much, much younger,
LISA GARR: So, how would
one know that they have
a gluten intolerance,
or a wheat sensitivity,
or a dairy sensitivity?
Well, let's start with wheat,
because that's a big one.
So, wheat, for example,
the person will be tired.
And another thing that
they might experience
is foggy thinking.
So, they'll be thinking, now
I can't complete a sentence,
and I'm feeling fuzzy, and
I can't grasp for a word.
So, foggy thinking, and the
fatigue, and then, of course,
the big one as we
progress in age,
joint stiffness and arthritis.
So, there are many other ones.
Poor absorption of
nutrition, for example,
not absorbing well.
Nails are cracking, and eyes
are getting a little bit dim.
That's a byproduct.
But the ones that I'm
most interested in
are the joint
stiffness, the fatigue,
and the foggy thinking.
And, of course, the weight gain,
because if you put in a food
that your body doesn't
like, your immune system
starts to react.
And then the person
will gain weight because
of the release of histamine.
So the immune system reacts,
histamine is released,
and then, of course, the
byproduct is fluid retention.
It's so interesting,
and we just call this,
oh, we're just getting older.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: No,
it's nothing to do with it.
-It's not that at all.
-Yeah.
Figure it out, and
start to take the things
out, and make other changes.
-OK.
And then the person will
start feeling better.
Their joints won't be as stiff.
So, what I love about it is
it's so universally simple.
You think of the universe.
The universe is very simple.
If you need
something, it's there.
So, don't you think that it
would be a given, for example,
if people are having
health problems,
just to maybe examine
food as a possible cause
of health problems.
Well, it's confusing a little
bit, because you've said,
up until 40-- I mean, you
go through your 20's, 30's,
you can do whatever
you want, your body
has this beautiful, innate
intelligence to just
heal, repair, homeostasis.
It wants to thrive.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes.
And then it does that for 30.
40 years, and it just breaks.
So, it is confusing.
You're triumphant
for so many years,
thinking everything
is going to be great.
And then, all of
a sudden, it says,
that's not happening anymore.
But you know, the body
has that built in capacity
to repair at any age.
I've seen it, with 60-year-olds,
70-year-olds, 80-year- olds.
LISA GARR: That's great.
So, that's something that we
can really hang onto and be
really, really grateful about.
LISA GARR: I'm
glad you said that.
OK.
So, let's talk about
one of the other things,
which would be dairy.
Well, I want-- I'm not sure
whether this is the moment
to show the different
foods-- but I
was going to say, for example,
bread, for example-- something
that everybody knows--
that bread for someone
can make them tired.
And you'll notice that, if
you have a sandwich at lunch,
and you start feeling tired.
So bread will do it.
Pasta, for example, is
another wheat product.
That can make a
person tired as well.
Biscuits, buns,
cookies, all of that.
Those are all made
from wheat flour,
and that's what I was
talking about-- those three
different symptoms.
-OK.
Dairy is interesting,
too, but it
affects the respiratory tract.
It affects breathing.
So, when a person
is having asthma,
or they're not breathing
well, and they're
having a lot of milk-based
products, then look to dairy.
Now how is that--
-Right--
--a factor in weight gain?
Well, when you look at the
North American diet industry,
the number one diet food is
going to be low fat cottage
cheese or string cheese.
But if you think of it,
the milk product from a cow
is actually designed
for baby cows.
It's not designed
for human beings.
So, we're much more
reactive to cow's milk
than we would be to other milks.
Because of the fact of the
way the cow forages for food.
It goes through one stomach,
and then it becomes milk.
Where, if you use goat cheese,
or if you use goat's milk,
the goat has three
different chambers.
And so, by the time it
actually becomes milk,
it's pre-digested.
And that's why we can usually
handle those kinds of milks,
and where we can't
with cow's milk.
So, it's a big, big
sensitivity is the dairy.
LISA GARR: You have a
list here of the foods--
the most common food allergies
and sensitivities for people.
Dairy, as you mentioned.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes.
LISA GARR: And then, the--
Wheat flour.
Corn is a big one.
So, here we have--
everyone loves it.
Now why would corn be an issue?
Corn, in our culture,
is really genetically
modified, most of it.
And really corn is a sugar.
It's widely used in
the baking industry.
And so, because it's a cheap
filler, and so it's a sugar.
And as soon as the person
has the sugar, all they want
is more.
And, just like you
said, an insulin spike.
So, as soon as
insulin is spiked,
bam-- that person
just wants more sugar.
So, if you have an insulin
spike, respond with a protein,
brings the blood
sugars back down.
So it's kind of neat.
LISA GARR: Where would
you put milk, and so
forth, in the corn products.
it's actually adding
insult to injury, isn't it?
Well, milk and a corn
product, I think would be
kind of like a double whammy.
But here's what I
think you could do.
LISA GARR: That's what
baking products are.
That's right.
But if a person wants to
have corn, for example,
then put out a bowl of
popcorn, for example.
Then put a bowl of
nuts out, along with.
So, you're having a little
couple handfuls of popcorn,
and then maybe you're
having some toasted cashew
nuts or something, along with.
And that way you're
balancing your blood sugars.
LISA GARR: And you also have
sugar and coffee over there.
I do, so, and
everyone's is thinking--
LISA GARR: Coffee's my favorite.
--oh, man, what
are we going to do.
Well, here's the thing.
Let's talk about it.
So, here's regular sugar.
And, I don't think
there's anything
wrong with having a sweet
dessert once a week,
or once every 10 days.
Fair enough.
We have to live in the world.
Life is wonderful.
-Thank you.
And there are
many things that we
should be enjoying
on an irregular
basis, an occasional basis.
And I think that's totally fine.
But, it will spike insulin.
You will want more when
you have a sweet dessert.
What about honey?
Honey, agave nectar, all of
those different sweeteners,
all will give an insulin spike.
-Same thing.
Yes.
Even stevia.
But stevia is really the most
benign of all the products.
Even xylitol is too, when
they are permissible.
But they will still
spike insulin.
And what they do is they
keep the sweet receptors
switched on.
And that's what you don't want.
You want to shut down
those sweet receptors,
so that you can pass a
bakery, pass a chocolate shop,
pass any of those
kind of goody places,
and it doesn't pull you
in, and call you in.
Now this is for people
that want to lose weight.
But it's also for anyone who
wants to have great energy.
So, coffee what it does, is it
literally will strip your body,
and take energy away
from you, because it
affects the adrenal glands.
And your adrenal
glands are your fight
or flight special
glands that protect
you in stressful situations.
And so, what you do by having
regular coffee is knocking out
those adrenal glands, which then
the person wants more coffee.
They want more sugar
to bring them up.
So, what I suggest for
people is switch down
to something like a
really tasty French roast
decaffeinated coffee.
And it doesn't
have the caffeine,
but it still has a taste.
And it's really
sort of soothing,
and mellow, and nurturing.
And people want the taste and
the smell of the caffeine,
but they don't
need the downside.
And what I don't
like about caffeine
is it affects the
lymphatic system.
And when you think of
women and breast tissue,
there is no delineation
between breast
tissue and lymphatic tissue.
And caffeine affects
the lymph, and we know
that, because of mammograms.
And they tell you,
don't take caffeine
24 hours before your
mammogram, because it
will be more painful.
So, we know that--
Interesting.
--just from mammograms.
What about tea and the
caffeine from tea or black teas?
Green teas?
-Well, it's the same thing.
I hate to say it.
It does the same thing
to the lymphatic system.
So, once in a while, I
think, once in awhile,
maybe once a week, have
a caffeinated product.
Fair enough.
But during the
week, while you're
trying to gather
your energy back,
your body is so precious
and so important,
and to really care for it
and nurture it and not keep
knocking it out with these
stimulants that just make us
more fatigued and wear us down.
That is part of the
American diet, what
you have going on over there.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes, it is.
What about one of
my favorite foods,
that I don't eat any
longer, because I
am gluten free-- pizza.
Well, here's the thing.
If you have a family, and
you're all going to a party,
and you go to a pizza
place, maybe once every two
or three weeks, fair enough.
You're going to feel bloated,
and you're going to feel gassy,
and there you've got the
exposures to the dairy
and the wheat in one meal.
But we have to, again,
live in the world.
But if you're having pizza
more than once every 10 days
or two weeks, you will
end up retaining fluid,
and then having
at least two days,
you know, 48 hours, to be able
to expel that retained fluid.
So, that's the thing of just
watching what you can get.
Now many pizza places now
have gluten free crusts.
LISA GARR: Right.
And so, you could
get the tomato sauce.
You can get all the
different toppings.
Maybe avoid the cheese, or take
your own little bag of grated
up goat cheese, and put
it on yourself at the end.
But you can still do
pizza and avoid it.
But I would say to people,
have the regular pizza.
Just don't have it that often.
It takes two days to detoxify
pizza out of the body?
It will take two days.
Well, you see you're
going to retain fluid
from the histamine reactions.
Interesting.
And so, you retain the fluid,
and then, if you don't have
any offending
foods for 48 hours,
then the body just
releases that stored fluid,
and you just urinate it out.
That'll be-- for example, if
a person goes, for example,
to Thailand for a vacation.
They'll say, isn't
that interesting?
I was in Thailand,
and I lost 10 pounds.
Now how could that be?
They weren't exposed
to gluten there.
to milk products.
They had coconut milk,
and they had rice.
So, they didn't have
these histamine reactions.
And that's what causes
this fluid retention, which
is not fat, but it's fluid.
And that's what I call
the great fat fluid myth.
It's really a myth.
But when people from
other countries come here,
and they have--
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
They gain weight.
--hamburgers and French fries.
And they eat pizza,
and sandwiches--
Yes, and ice cream.
They gain weight.
-And desserts.
-Yes.
Let's talk a little
bit about desserts,
if we can, because
it-- basically,
desserts have all
of the things you
just mentioned-- dairy, sugar,
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
That's right.
LISA GARR: --wheat,
many different things.
Well, the fruit's good.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
So, what could you do.
So, let's say you
went somewhere.
You went to a wedding
or you went to a party.
And there was a dessert.
Just monitor your blood sugar.
Just notice how you feel.
You'll feel a little bit
tired, craving more sugar.
So, as soon as you get
home, have something
that's protein based,
like some nut butter,
on the end of a spoon.
And just balance out
your blood sugars,
and that will help
with the effect
of having that sugar spike.
What do you eat?
I mean, you have a
pretty regimented diet.
But it's not difficult. So, how
many times a day do you eat?
I eat whenever I'm hungry.
I eat three meals--
breakfast, lunch, and dinner,
and a mid-morning,
mid-afternoon snack.
And I always have, and
this is contrary to all
of the diet gurus.
But I always have a late
night before bed snack.
And that might be about two
tablespoons of goat yogurt
with a little
sprinkling of cinnamon,
and about four pecans.
Just a little bit to balance my
blood sugars through the night.
So, that you maintain
your sugar levels, so--
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes.
--you'll wake
up starving, or--
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes.
And you sleep very
deeply, because you
don't have the blood sugar.
You know, when your
head hits the pillow,
and you get this pounding,
that's a blood sugar drop.
So, if you feel that,
you just check yourself
before you get into bed.
-Interesting.
And you say, now
how am I feeling?
Am I hungry?
I'm a little bit hungry.
So, you always go for a protein.
Don't go for a
banana, for example,
that'll just make it worse.
LISA GARR: Oh, interesting.
-Yeah.
LISA GARR: So, of all the things
that contain the wheat flour,
what about the products
that you mentioned
that are gluten free, breads
and gluten free crackers,
and things like that.
They tend to contain
many different grains.
Well, that's actually--
on the one hand, it's good.
So, it's really
exciting that there
are many gluten free products.
LISA GARR: Yeah.
It's wonderful.
So, that's what
the wonderful part.
The downside part is that people
think, oh, it's gluten free,
I can have as much as I want.
It's still going to be
high in carbohydrate.
So, keep the carbs low of the
gluten free items as well.
And they're often
very overly processed.
They have added sugars in them.
So, you have to look to
see what you're getting.
But they're a good
idea as long as people
don't go overboard and have
too many carbohydrates.
OK.
So are you suggesting that
if you cut these things out
of your diet, if you cut
out the wheat and the sugar,
for the most part, and the
pastas, and the dairy--
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes.
--that somebody
will lose weight?
In your practice, have
you experienced this?
Well, there's other things
that have to be done.
So, you have to
stop the cravings.
And that's Candida yeast.
And also, you really need to
look at thyroid and hormones.
And they should be exercising
about 15 minutes a day.
Either a brisk walk, or a swim,
or just a little bit of a gym
workout, even a home gym.
But, one of the reasons why
people can't lose weight,
that's because their thyroid
isn't functioning properly,
and/or their hormones
are out of balance.
We're going to talk
about that today--
Yes.
--because that's a
very big conversation.
Yes.
But, I want to
just stay focused
real quickly on that list
that we had mentioned-- soy.
Yes.
Let's talk a little
bit about soy--
Yes.
--because there's a big
controversy around soy.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Well,
soy can be problematic.
I don't think there's anything
wrong with an exposure
to soy here or there,
or a little sprinkling
of soy sauce on your food, I
don't think that's the problem.
It's the slabs of tofu, and the
constant using soy milk here
and there, and soy lattes,
and that sort of thing,
because soy suppresses
thyroid function.
And it affects the way the body
absorbs iron and B vitamins.
And those are your
building block vitamins.
They give you your juice, your
zip, your joy, and your energy.
They boost your energy.
And so, what soy will do is,
will be suppress that function,
and you can't absorb
iron and B vitamins well.
And then, of course, it
suppresses thyroid function.
And the thyroid, if
the thyroid is low,
then the person is going to
be poopy, droopy, draggy, low
energy, and we don't want that.
So, that's interesting.
So, soy also is
considered-- the body
goes into an allergic
reaction to it?
Well, you can have
an allergic reaction.
But it really has an
estrogenic effect as well.
It contains estrogen. And,
for example, in Israel
and in Germany,
they have actually
banned soy infant formula.
There are very large labels
on soy infant formula
that this can raise
estrogen levels in a baby,
and to be aware of that.
And people in North
America, potentially,
may not be aware of that.
That's also-- I
read a statistic
about that contributing
to obesity in children.
Yes, because it
raises estrogen levels.
Just the way-- in the
regular animal production,
conventional production
of beef, for example,
they give the cows estrogen
to increase their body weight.
And so, estrogen has
an estrogenic-- I mean,
soy has an estrogenic effect,
which then can increase
the size of the person.
Now, you mentioned
eating protein regularly.
-Yes.
-Do you eat meat?
I do.
I went back to eating
red meat many years ago .
And it was-- I was a--
I wasn't a vegetarian,
but I was a fringy vegetarian.
A lot of fish and vegetables and
beans and that sort of thing.
And my energy was
dropping, and I
was getting wider and
wider, which for me is
not that much to become wide.
When you're little, you can
really feel five pounds.
And I went back to
eating red meat,
and it made a huge
difference in my energy.
And I do see that
in certain people.
Especially, with certain ethnic
origins that the red meat
would be helpful for them.
LISA GARR: That's interesting.
So, it really is
different for every body--
Yes.
LISA GARR: --which is
very important to know.
Yes.
But, in terms of the beef, you
mentioned that there's a lot
of hormones in the meat--
So, you want organic and
hormone free, as best you can.
As best that you can.
And usually, lamb, for
example, is red meat.
Lamb is usually brought
in from New Zealand,
and they don't use hormones
at all in New Zealand.
And most of the lamb
production in the United States
is usually on farms that
are a little bit more
conscious about what they're
doing with hormones, and feed,
and that sort of thing.
-Yeah.
That's a tough one.
-It is hard.
It is difficult. But
it's not for everybody.
But for some people, it
can make a huge difference.
LISA GARR: You're right.
Well, let's talk
a little bit more
about the alternatives here.
So, the alternatives to
cheese that you mentioned,
there is goat's cheese.
-Yes.
LISA GARR: An alternative to
milk would be goat's milk?
Goat's milk.
There's sheep cheese and
goat cheese for cheese.
And then, of course,
there's rice milk.
There's almond milk.
There's hemp milk.
There are different
milks that can be used,
and you can use goat
milk, and lots of children
respond extremely
well to goat milk.
What about the goat milk,
which I find a little bit--
it's got a--
-Goatee.
Yeah.
A little tangy.
-That's right.
-What about feta?
Is feta a low moisture cheese.
I mean, is it any better?
Well, it has to be goat feta.
And it's wonderful
sprinkled on a salad.
And you can actually make
grilled cheese with goat feta.
And it's fabulous.
You put a little
slice of tomato,
and if you have a little--
whatever you want-- pastrami
or something like that,
and then load it up
with the feta on the top,
and put a couple basil
leaves underneath.
And put it on the grill,
and oh, man, you don't
miss grilled cheese at all.
So, there is no bread on that.
Well, you'll have a piece
of gluten free bread.
Well, I've been great with
making sandwiches with lettuce.
I've made lettuce
sandwiches forever.
Wraps, roll things up.
They're so great.
When you take--
Absolutely.
--big pieces of
lettuce, and you stack
everything you want
in there, and you
just eat it like a sandwich.
-That's right.
It's a little messy,
but it's really good.
It's very good, and
you get very creative.
Especially if you're out, and
you are not at home and not
able to prepare your
meals, it's a good thing
to go-- you can go
to a sandwich shop
and make a lettuce sandwich.
Yes, you absolutely can.
Let's talk about some of
the gluten free alternatives
in terms of crackers
and so forth.
Is rye OK?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Well, now
here's the interesting thing
about rye.
It is a glutenous grain.
There are four
glutinous grains--
wheat, oats, barley, and rye.
But rye is the lowest
form of gluten.
So, if you imagine rye flakes,
if you get whole rye flakes,
and you put them in your
hand, you mix them with water
and squeeze them together,
when you open your hand,
every single flake
will be separated.
But, if you do the
same thing with oats--
we know rolled oats-- and
you mix them with water,
and you squeeze
your hand, you'll
have a ball, literally in your
hand, the shape of your hand.
So, they're very low in gluten.
And unless a
person's celiac, they
really will be able to tolerate
100% rye, rice crackers.
There are lots of wonderful
sweet potato chips,
for example.
Different vegetable chips
and vegetable crackers.
So, there are many alternatives.
But again, keep them low.
They're high in carbohydrate.
What about quinoa?
Yes.
Is that a good one?
Is that--
Quinoa a wonderful grain.
And you can make it, for
example, in place of porridge
or in place of oatmeal.
Cook that quinoa, and then
put some coconut milk in it,
and chop cashew nuts, and a
little sprinkle of cinnamon
on the top.
You're in heaven.
We're getting recipes, too.
That sounds really great--
-Yes.
--for a morning breakfast,
because there's a little
protein in quinoa, isn't there?
There is protein.
I always recommend that people
have a little extra protein
alongside.
The quinoa may not last them
more than an hour and a half,
and if they have a
blood sugar drop,
they might need a little
bit of extra protein.
And then, also, barley,
you mentioned barley.
Now-- what's the difference
between wheat and gluten?
Well, gluten is
part of the wheat.
It's not a difference.
So, when something
says wheat free,
is it different than
being gluten free?
If it's wheat free, then that
means there is no wheat in it.
W-H-E-A-T. You could check to
see, but usually, if it's wheat
free, it's gluten free as well.
LISA GARR: OK.
That makes sense.
But what you don't want is, you
don't want gluten free wheat,
because the wheat
itself will trigger
the very same reactions.
The gluten feeds the
yeast, and contributes
to the cravings for sugar.
But the wheat itself is the
part that causes the symptoms.
The foggy thinking, and the
stiffness, and the fatigue.
OK.
So, let's talk about--
you had mentioned Candida,
and Candida being the main
source of weight gain.
Explain that, if you can.
That's a really big deal.
In North America, we
have such an exposure
to antibiotics through the food
chain, and by prescription.
So, we're literally
over using antibiotics.
So, when that happens, it throws
off the flora in the colon.
And that's a mixture
of beneficial and not
so beneficial bacteria that
reside naturally in the colon,
which is the large intestine.
And so what happens
then is this Candida
yeast, which is
always present, it
gets into an overgrowth state.
And when it's in an
overgrowth state,
the person craves starches,
and they crave sugars.
That's all they want.
That's why you're saying,
you can't beat the cravings.
-That's right.
-The body is doing it for you.
I see.
It's like there's
an organism within,
and then you're just feeding
it with all the starch and all
the sugar, even the good
sugars and allowable sugars,
like we talked-- agave
nectar and honey.
And those will still feed it.
And fruit will feed it as well.
So, this Candida yeast
is really important.
It's a cornerstone
for what I do.
I just-- it comes to me, and
it's come to me for many years,
as a scent.
It's a smell that comes
right off the body.
And as soon as I smell it,
then I know that person is,
I say, going down.
Well, where are they going?
Their memory's going.
Their energy is going.
And they're starting
to gain weight.
And so, as soon as
I smell it, I say,
oh, oh, we've got
to grab this one,
and arrest it, and keep it down.
So, you do that with
certain supplements
that are antifungal,
anti-Candida supplements.
And then, the diet, of course,
not having a high amount
of sugar and starch.
And usually, within
the first four weeks,
those cravings go away.
And the person starts to
bring their energy back,
and they feel better.
We're going to
take a quick break.
And when we come back, we're
going to talk about some
of the supplements that
Caroline Sutherland recommends.
And ways to reduce the
Candida in the body,
which is very, very important.
We'll be right back.
Talking about cracking
the weight loss code.
We'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[COMMERCIAL BEGINS]
What if there was an
online channel, where
you could find thousands
of videos devoted
to really changing your world.
What if this channel
offered programming
that cared about the things
that mattered most to you.
Your well being, your
community, and the world beyond.
Most people really are
thinking the same way every day,
acting the same way, and
feeling the same way,
but really hoping
something will show up
differently in their
life, and it never does.
And, what if it was
also dedicated to yoga,
fitness, and alternative
approaches to health.
You don't focus on
what holds you back.
You focus on what's
already there.
History and spirituality.
Ego is the belief that
you are separated from God,
which is the most
terrifying thought
that could ever happen to us.
SPEAKER: What if it
offered solutions to many
of the problems we face today?
Is it possible that
there is something
I don't fully
understand about life.
The understanding of which
would change everything.
SPEAKER: What if it went
that extra mile to help
you find passion and purpose?
When you're doing what you're
supposed to do, doors open.
SPEAKER: What if
this channel didn't
have any ads, and instead,
used its valuable air time
to engage?
You'll accomplish so
much more if you're happy.
SPEAKER: Entertained
and enlightened.
Your spiritual being's immersed
in the human experience.
SPEAKER: With many of the
top thinkers and visionaries
from around the world--
We started this film by asking,
what's wrong with the world?
And we ended up discovering
what's right with it.
SPEAKER: Well, guess what?
It's here.
Inspirational films, original
interviews, engaging series.
Welcome to Gaiam TV.
Thousands of streaming videos
to fuel your life's journey.
[COMMERCIAL ENDS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome back.
My guest is medical intuitive,
Caroline Sutherland,
and we're talking about
cracking the weight loss code.
She gave us a little cliffhanger
right there before the break.
We were talking about
Candida, and solutions
for Candida, which Caroline
says is a weight loss epidemic.
So, tell me a little bit
about solutions for Candida.
You think, about how many
people do you think have--
I'd say it's universal.
Wow.
I could just sit literally,
on a bench, under a tree,
and I could help people with
Candida yeast, literally
every single day of the week.
And if I did nothing else,
I would be able to do that.
And that's all.
LISA GARR: My goodness.
Wow.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
So, it's universal.
And I believe is the cornerstone
behind excess body weight,
and very few people
are addressing it.
You look at all the
mainstream diet books,
and it's not listed.
It's not mentioned at all.
It's all about calorie counting,
and eating a celery stick,
and saying no.
You can't do that to people.
You have to give
them lots of food,
and you have to
help them with where
these cravings are coming from.
Now does that
Candida weight show
up primarily around the belly?
It can be anywhere.
It can really be anywhere.
It's just the fact that you
have-- as soon as you stop
the cravings, you
empower people,
because what happens
with cravings--
it's like a huge specter that
hangs over the person's head,
and they just think
of food all the time.
They wake up thinking of food.
They go to sleep
thinking of food.
And they never are separated.
They're never away
from this huge,
kind of, overlying specter, if
you will, of wanting to eat,
and needing to eat.
And it's not them.
They blame themselves.
They say, well, it's my
grandfather or my grandmother.
It's nothing to do with them.
It's an organism that
lives inside them,
that they have to wrestle
literally to the ground.
And you do that by keeping
the starches and sugars low,
making sure you're having
a balanced diet, protein
at every meal, not
a lot, but just
enough to balance blood sugars.
And then you use
certain supplements
to arrest this process.
Now, I'll talk about
the metaphysics of it,
and because we can
do that on this type
of a television program.
Really, the metaphysics
of Candida yeast
is really the death process.
It's the breakdown
death and decay
process, that's
natural and inherent
within the human being.
So, what we want to do is
arrest that break down process.
We want to keep it down
until we've finished
our mission and our destiny--
LISA GARR: Interesting.
--which is each individual's
own thing that they want to do.
Something they're
passionate about.
And Candida is in
men and women alike?
Yes, babies, grandparents.
Oh, my goodness.
You look at a nursing home.
All that is is people
that are full of yeast.
Literally, their bodies have
broken down to such an extent,
they can't think for themselves.
They can't function.
And they've all
made a commitment
to gather in that one
place, and wait to die.
And, you know, because you'll
go to see someone in a nursing
home, you open the
door, and all you
can smell is a wall of
yeast. and that's what it is.
It's rampant in older folks.
And, of course, all
they want is sugar.
All they want is starch.
And that's what's
feeding that yeast.
But what I find really
amazing about it,
is a precursor to all
the major label diseases.
And the biggest one,
of course, is cancer.
And why is it that we have
this huge epidemic of cancer?
Well, cancer cells
are fed on sugar.
They love sugar.
That's all they want to
grow and proliferate.
And so, we have a high
starch, high sugar diet,
which I believe is the main
reason for the amount of cancer
that we have in our society.
And, of course, all
of the wheat products,
which are filled with sugar,
have to do with the Candida.
Yes.
So, let's talk
about some solutions.
What to do.
Yes, you mentioned a few.
Let's-- rattle them off to us.
What are five
solutions for Candida.
So, first thing to
know-- could I potentially
have an overgrowth
of Candida yeast?
So, there's two symptoms
you want to look for.
One is overwhelming desires
for starch and sugars.
And the other one is fatigue.
Is a person tired?
And are they craving?
So, if you can answer
either of those two
questions, then, OK, good.
So, now I have lots of
things on my website
that people can just go
to the health food store,
and lay out all the products
that they have for Candida
yeast control, and then pick the
one that feels right for them.
Intuitively.
Instinctively.
Or to even ask about it.
And so, some type
of a supplement
would be really, really--
that's the obvious thing.
Like a lot of people will
come to me and they'll say,
Caroline, I've been
doing the Candida
diet for the last three years.
And how is it that in me
you're detecting that I'm
still dealing with yeast?
-Right.
Well, that'll come by a smell.
You see, it's a smell
that I can pick up.
LISA GARR: Interesting.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: And so, the
thing that they weren't doing,
is they weren't taking
the supplements.
LISA GARR: So, the supplements
that you mention here are
Apa-Trol drops that help you--
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Those
are little special drops
that you can't get anywhere
else, except for on my website.
I'm sorry to say.
LISA GARR: OK.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: But
they block the desire
to overeat starch and sugar.
They contain neurotransmitters.
There are little homeopathic
drops, and are very helpful.
LISA GARR: But that
doesn't actually address
the problem though, right?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: It
helps you as you're starting
to get it under control.
So, as you're starting to take
the Candida yeast supplements,
you use the drops.
And as you're starting
to change the diet
and get the sugars
and starches down,
then the drops can help you
through that initial five,
six week kind of process.
LISA GARR: OK.
Let's talk about some
of the supplements then.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes.
LISA GARR: You've mentioned
yeast supplements.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
What will knock it out?
OK.
Good.
So, the one I like is
grapefruit seed extract,
either tablets or capsules.
The drops taste bad so I
don't recommend the drops.
The other one I like very
well is oregano oil capsules,
that will work well if a person
has a little bit of strength
to their body.
If they're fragile,
and they, kind of,
might be a little
bit reactive, you've
got to watch it with that.
Another one that I like
very well is Powdearco.
Powdearco is a
type of a herb that
comes from South
America, that is
very helpful for fungal
and Candida conditions.
And then, I also like, for
people that are fragile,
or nursing mothers, pregnant
mothers, or children,
is a homeopathic
that's designed to get
Candida yeast under control.
And you never get rid of it.
It's always there.
So, it's interesting.
LISA GARR: That's interesting.
You always have to maintain it.
It's the maintenance, yes.
Does it cause arthritis?
Does it cause osteoporosis?
Well, it's not a cause of it.
LISA GARR: OK.
But, it can contribute
to joint stiffness.
Because when you think of
our digestive tract wall,
it should be strong,
and it should
have very good skin tone, and
be very tight and very strong.
But what happens as
we progress in age,
it becomes holey or permeable.
And then these undigested food
molecules and yeast spores
pass through the GI tract wall.
That's what leaky
gut syndrome is.
And people have heard
of leaky gut syndrome.
-Very painful.
-So, these-- Yeah.
They pass through
the GI tract wall,
and then they get
into the bloodstream.
And so, then the
immune system reacts.
And that's where you have the
joint stiffness, and the pain,
in relationship to Candida.
It's interesting, because
there's a lot of prescription
drugs for things like
leaky gut syndrome,
or irritable bowel syndrome--
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Yes.
--and so forth.
Do you recommend going
after those drugs?
Or do you recommend going
after the supplements
to kill the yeast?
Well, I really like probiotics.
If you use probiotics, and
you use an anti-fungal,
and you eliminate
the glutinous grains,
and get the sugar way down,
you start to repair that gut.
And that's the whole thing.
The gut is really the center.
People will say, well,
I've got something going on
and I can't think
clearly in my brain,
and I'm going to
take a supplement.
I would go directly
and work gut.
I would work gut for
arthritis, or anything related
to the brain, or energy.
Skin even.
Anything on the skin
is related to the gut.
So many people think,
well, skin is skin.
No, uh-uh, it starts here.
Oh, skin, talking about
eczema and things like that.
Yes.
That's yeast related.
Candida yeast.
And milk and dairy products
is a killer for that, right?
Well, put it this way.
They are not as bad as the
starches and the sugar.
But remember that
milk has milk sugar,
so it will feed Candida yeast.
Yes.
So, then would
rice milk, as well?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Rice milk,
I hate to say it, but will.
See, that's the thing with a
lot of those alternative milks--
Almond milk?
They have-- almond
milk, probably not,
unless it has added sugar.
But rice milk has rice syrup.
So, you have to look very-- once
you get the idea, the education
of the picture, the broad
view, then the choices
are more easily made.
But people just don't
have-- they think, OK,
well sold in a health food
store, and it should be good,
and it's a milk alternative.
Yes, but it does contain sugar.
What about cultured foods
for yeast infections?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
Well, some people
really like cultured foods.
And that's where certain foods
like cabbage can be fermented,
and beets can be fermented.
Other people react to them.
So it's a very
individual choice.
And there is actually a big
culture of cultured foods.
And people are very into it.
And I think it's
quite interesting.
It takes a lot of work,
so it's not necessarily
everyone's cup of tea.
Well, it builds
a community, too.
It does build a community.
And I think there's
definitely some truth
to this whole gut area.
And reestablishing beneficial
bacteria is what it's called.
And it's very interesting.
LISA GARR: I introduced
you as a medical intuitive.
And I haven't touched on
that in this interview.
And I wanted to have you just
talk about that a little bit.
And I definitely want to have
the conversation about thyroid,
and the hormone balancing.
But all of the information
that you're giving us,
is it based on your career
as a medical intuitive,
in helping thousands
and thousands of people?
Tell us a little bit
about what that is.
Well, it's really based
mostly on my clinical days,
where I had 55,000 patient
visits under my belt
before I left a clinic.
LISA GARR: Wow.
I was an allergy testing
technician for medical doctors
and naturopathic physicians.
So I had a lot of
hands-on patient work,
where all of the testing would
show the food sensitivities,
all of testing would
show candida yeast,
and different imbalances.
And then, of course, I was
part of, and able to see,
what would happen
to the patients
after they were treated.
So you just learn so
much in so many years,
just solid, solid learning.
So it's really that clinical
background that gives me
the foundation for what I do.
But I pick it up instinctively.
I really do feel
that my instincts
are very finely honed.
And they're really
honed for correction.
I'm not interested
in what is wrong.
I just go in with the
attitude and the knowledge,
the real knowledge, that the
body has a capacity to repair.
It will repair at any age,
if we give it the tools.
And candida yeast and food
sensitivities literally are
the cornerstone of what I do.
I do other things as well,
but those two things are
done for every single person.
And sometimes what
I find is people
will come to me after
they've seen practitioners,
and I've asked them, well,
has anybody helped you
with your food sensitivities?
Has anybody helped
you with your yeast?
Oh, well, you know,
this practitioner
said we'll be getting
to that next month,
or maybe in six months' time.
I like that to be
dealt with right away.
LISA GARR: First thing.
So people do go to
practitioners for things
like thyroid imbalances
and hormone imbalances.
Yes, yes.
LISA GARR: So this is a major
contributor to weight gain--
Yes.
---is an out-of-balance thyroid?
Can you talk about that?
Yes, well, I love
to talk about that.
And here's something really
simple that everyone can do.
Take 10 days-- just
think of a 10-day window.
Get yourself a
basal thermometer--
that's a type of a
thermometer that shows
the little tiny increments.
And take your body temperature
first thing in the morning,
before you put your
feet on the floor,
before you get out of bed.
Put a piece of paper and
a pen on your nightstand.
Take your temperature,
record your temperature.
And your normal body
temperature is 98.6.
So if anything lower than
98.6-- and a lot of people
have low body
temperature-- 94, 95,
96, low 97, not even high 97.
And if that's the case,
low body temperature,
that's a sign that the thyroid
is not functioning properly.
And if that thyroid is
not functioning properly,
the person will be tired,
they won't have a great mood,
they'll be draggy, they'll
just feel as if they're really
not participating in
life, and, of course,
they'll have this weight gain.
So the thyroid is a
really big factor.
And I would say I see that as
a problem in 90% of the people
that I see every year.
And I see between 3,000
and 5,000 people a year.
Oh my goodness.
Oh yes, I've had hands on
now about 150,000 people.
And I see in 90% of
them that thyroid
is not functioning well.
Why is it not functioning well?
It's all related to stress,
and the expenditure of power.
Because when the
adrenals are knocked out,
and the person is stressed,
there goes thyroid function.
LISA GARR: And you said
expenditure of power.
Personal power, or energy?
Expenditure of power, which
means, yes, if the person is
invested, you know, in a
person, a place, a thing,
very invested,
say, in their job,
and they lose energy
themselves, then that thyroid
goes down because of stress.
Now, what about
the supplements,
like the prescriptions,
and the Synthroids,
and those types of things?
Do you recommend
that for people?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: Well,
first of all, I'm not a doctor,
so I'm not qualified to be able
to make a determination there.
But doctors really
like synthetic thyroid,
which is going to
be Synthroid or it's
going to be the levothyroxine.
They like that because
it's easy for them
to be able to calibrate
it and to test it.
LISA GARR: Right.
But there are some long-term
side effects of that, namely
bone density, and the fact
that the thyroid kind of says
to itself-- and this is just a
simple way of saying it-- well,
I'm on that supplement,
so I can go to sleep now,
and I don't really have to do
anything to support myself,
meaning thyroid.
I like a glandular, I
really like a porcine or
a bovine glandular for thyroid.
Because, of course--
and this sounds odd--
but a glandular that's
made from animal tissue
actually is a really very
good match for human tissue.
And I do find that
people respond
incredibly well from bovine
or porcine thyroid support.
But people can use kelp, they
can use combination herbs.
They can try different things.
So what you do is you take your
body temperature for 10 days.
If it's low, then start
taking kelp, maybe one cup
with breakfast.
Wait a week.
LISA GARR: Tablets?
Tablet or caplet.
What's more concentrated?
Tablet or capsule,
concentrated.
And then do that for a week.
Test again with the
temperature of the thermometer.
And then maybe raise
it to two breakfast.
And then check again.
It might have to be two
breakfast, one lunch.
But I'll tell you one
thing that will really
bring thyroid function
up is to get the amount
of starch and sugar down.
That supports thyroid function,
as well as reducing stress.
LISA GARR: Overall,
a weight solution
is to reduce the
amount of carbohydrates
that you're taking in.
But not a zero-carb diet.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: I
don't think that's good.
I really don't.
No carbs, I think, is not good.
And I don't just like a lot
of protein and vegetables
for people over and over again.
They do have to have
some carbohydrate,
because carbohydrate is a fuel.
And some people can
actually feel worse if they
have almost no carbohydrate.
Other people can feel fabulous.
It's very individual, you
know, the body does know.
LISA GARR: I got stuck
in that with just protein
and vegetables and
got stupid, because I
didn't have any brain power for,
yeah, from the carbohydrates.
Yes, you see,
it's so individual.
And you have to
find your own level.
I find if people do that,
the way to correct it
is just four tablespoons
of brown rice at each meal.
And that usually is
enough to bring it up.
LISA GARR: Sweet potatoes,
things like that.
I want to stay on the
thyroid conversation--
Yes.
LISA GARR: --because
it is so important.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: It is.
You had mentioned
before iodine.
OK, so for people
with Hashimoto's, is
iodine recommended?
That's what I've heard
about the controversy.
Hashimoto's
thyroiditis really is
something that
should be treated,
well, obviously by a physician.
And you'd have to
consult with a physician.
Because there is an
aspect of it that may not
be useful for certain people.
But low thyroid
is so very common.
And I think if people
do a simple iodine test
by doing that little test
patch, the little test
on your inner arm.
And if that patch disappears
within eight hours,
then that is a sign that you
could be deficient in iodine.
And so many people are.
And, of course, having iodine at
the optimum levels in the body
is really a
cancer-protective mechanism.
And we know this from Japan when
they had the nuclear reactor
meltdown there.
They gave everybody
iodine tablets, because it
was cancer-protective.
-Interesting.
So I understood, why are
we so deficient in iodine?
Talk a little bit about that.
And why do they add
iodine to table salt?
Well, first of all, we don't
have iodized salt really
available to us any longer.
A lot of people are
having artisan salts,
and they're doing other things
with salt that's not iodized.
And also they add bromide
to the wheat, wheat flour,
as a type of a
stabilizing agent.
So it's added to wheat flour.
And we have so many
wheat products,
as you know, in our diet.
And so this bromide, it
robs the body of iodine.
-Interesting.
-Yes.
LISA GARR: So the wheat
correlation has to do
with the iodine deficiency.
And I understand that the
people from the Midwest origin
tend to be a little bit
more deficient in iodine.
And then that carries
throughout generation
to generations as well,
because of the lack
of sea salt. Correct?
Yes, well, that was the
thing that was done, you know,
much, much earlier.
Up to probably the
1980s, there was iodized
salt. And now people are
staying away from salt.
They're not even using.
So, oh, salt is bad--
no, salt is not bad.
Salt is a trace element,
and it's very necessary.
LISA GARR: If you crave
salt, does that maybe
indicate an iodine deficiency?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
It's usually
a vitamin-mineral
deficiency, craving salt.
So it's not necessarily related.
It's not a salt
deficiency. [CHUCKLE]
It's not related to iodine.
However, you could use
iodized salt. You could
use more sea vegetables,
and little dulse,
there's little dulse--
LISA GARR: Dulse is great.
---little flakes
that you can get,
and sprinkle on your salad.
So there's lots of
things you can do.
LISA GARR: That's really great.
A lot of great
solutions you've got.
Thank you so much.
Let's talk a lot about
hormones, and hormone balancing.
Well, it's a big deal
LISA GARR: It is.
That's a knotty subject--
starting with a K
and not necessarily
an N. But you know,
hormones are naughty as
well, and they should be.
But hormone balancing is a
really an important aspect
of aging well.
And I feel so grateful
that I've been
doing natural plant-based
hormone balancing myself.
But when you think
of weight gain,
there's a lot to hormones
involved in that.
And one of them, of course, when
people have excess body weight
is too much estrogen
in the body.
And that, of course, is
called estrogen dominance.
And this is excess fatty
tissue that's around the waist
that's loaded with estrogen.
Also around the
arms, for women.
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: It
can be in the arms as well.
It can be anywhere in
the body, but mostly
around the midsection.
So getting hormones
balanced is important.
But the biggest one for weight
gain is really that thyroid.
And so if the person,
once they do, for example,
a low-carbohydrate diet, once
they start correcting candida
yeast, once they understand
that exercise is important,
and they're keeping
their carbs low,
and they're doing
everything right,
the glitch is going
to be in the hormones,
if it isn't successful.
LISA GARR: Interesting.
So how would you even
approach hormone balancing?
And how would you know
that you're out of balance
with estrogen dominance?
Well, first of all, I really
think for hormone balancing,
you have to consult
with a physician.
They're the only ones that
can really prescribe hormones.
And then start with testing.
So for example, here's
a hormone-- cortisol.
If cortisol levels
are high at night,
then you won't be
able to lose weight.
Cortisol levels have to
be high in the morning.
Then you'll have a
better chance of having
your ideal body weight.
It's because of cortisol levels.
And that's a
stress-handling hormone.
And because we have
mega-stress, not necessarily
in our personal
lives, in our world,
our world is
incredibly stressful.
And this program, Gaiam,
really sheds a light
with so many authors and
speakers about what we can do
to be more conscious
and more aware of what's
going on in the world.
And so we feel the stress.
We may not have it in our
own lives, personally,
but we feel it.
It's an undercurrent
under everything.
Because nothing is stable.
Everything--
Even watching TV before you go
to bed, with watching an action
movie or TV show, or the news,
it raises cortisol levels,
doesn't it?
Everything has
destabilized, easily
within the last 10 years,
more so than ever before.
And so we're
experiencing that stress.
And so that throws off hormones.
LISA GARR: What do
you mean destabilized?
---as well.
Well, just the amount of
upheaval in our world.
Nothing is for
certain any longer.
In one way, it's a good thing,
because we're metaphysical.
So to be in the moment, of
course, is a wonderful thing.
But on another
level, it gives us
sort of an underlying sense
of potential fear-- you know,
what could be happening next.
There are so many
things happening,
so what could be happening next?
And what could be happening
to us individually?
So all of those things
raise the cortisol
levels in the body,
of course, before--
Yes, the stress.
---before sleep.
So that is another contributing
factor to weight gain.
Yes.
So what are some
suggestions to be
able to lower the cortisol
levels before you go to sleep?
Not read your email. [CHUCKLE]
No, get to bed early.
I think that's a wonderful
key, to reset your body clock.
Get to bed early
around 10 o'clock,
and get up early with the
birds and the sunlight,
and just start to get into the
groove of the natural rhythms
of nature, if it's possible.
LISA GARR: How much sleep is
enough sleep for weight loss,
and for maintaining a healthy,
balanced body, for real?
Well, whoever "they"
are, but they do say
between six and eight hours.
I love eight hours,
but I actually
do quite well on six hours.
But I think to really
respect sleep-- this concept
is not related to weight loss.
But I really think to really
understand that sleep is
an incredible
gift, and to really
respect it, and really
utilize that sleep
state for healing and repair.
And so many people don't
respect getting into bed.
And they, oh, I'll just
stay up until midnight,
or I'll maybe push it
to 1:00 in the morning.
And they don't realize that
there's an incredible energy
that literally sweeps the
earth and takes the person
when they're asleep, literally.
And we know this from ancient
text to the halls of learning,
where they're educated
for their higher purpose.
And so that sleep state
is tremendously important.
LISA GARR: Oh, it's a
beautiful way of saying that.
That makes a lot of sense.
Exercise-- is exercise
something that can
really help hormonal balancing?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND:
Very much so.
And it's so wonderful.
Exercise is wonderful.
It's so exciting.
And I love a nice walk
early in the morning,
and watch the seasons change,
and see what people are doing
in the neighborhood,
and just observe
little flowers, and trees,
and trees coming in to bud,
and so forth.
So just a daily walk,
15-minute brisk walk.
People can get that
pretty much anywhere.
LISA GARR: Do you do that?
Is that part of
your daily routine?
I do some form of
exercising every day.
I love to swim in the summer.
I love to swim in the ocean,
or in the lake, or in the pool.
So I love to swim,
and I love to walk.
Skiing, cross-country skiing
in the winter, I'll do that.
So I'm pretty much into
exercising moderately.
I don't think there's any need
for any excessive exercise,
because you can really
hurt yourself with that.
But exercise is important,
moves the lymphatic system,
and oxygenates your
brain, which, of course,
is great for thinking.
LISA GARR: Well, you have
an amazing perspective
on so many things.
And this entire show has
been filled with solutions.
And we have a video
here that Carolyn
Sutherland has put together
called "Your Body Knows."
And it shows a little
bit about her work
as a medical intuitive,
and how to really
ask your body what it needs to
have a healthy, vibrant life.
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
NARRATOR: Think about your body.
Are you happy with how you look?
How you feel?
CAROLINE SUTHERLAND: The
attainment of physical health,
and vitality, and stamina,
and vibrancy is not a mystery.
NARRATOR: The people you are
about to see are not actors.
These are their true stories.
My body was just sluggish.
My hands hurt, my feet hurt.
Tremendous physical fatigue,
as well as my mental clarity
was kind of shot.
The fat between my legs would
rub and then I'd get blisters.
I was in a desperate
physical state.
I really needed some help.
NARRATOR: What happens when
your child's health suffers?
One morning, my wife called
me hysterical from home.
And she said the sheets
are soaked in blood.
The pediatrician immediately
wrote down on the chart
"chronic failure to thrive."
The diagnosis the
doctors gave us
was agonizing,
that this was going
to be a life-long condition.
And to tell us
there was no hope.
NARRATOR: It's all
because of one woman.
Caroline.
NARRATOR: Internationally
recognized
author and well-respected
medical intuitive
Caroline Sutherland.
A knowingness, a knowingness--
I didn't know why I had that
knowing, but I knew I had it.
When you first
come up to Caroline,
it's really kind of
interesting, because you
don't know what to experience.
It's just amazing.
It's like she walks into your
body, and then walks back out.
She didn't examine my son,
she just looked at him.
And she gave this
no-nonsense advice
how we could help heal him.
It was always practical.
It was never something
mysterious and esoteric.
I always knew that
there was a foundation,
a practical foundation, forward
the intuitive impressions.
Once we started,
it was so easy.
It was nothing to it.
It's just very normal
and natural for me.
There's nothing fancy, or
glowing, in glowing lights
about it.
It's just normal, it's
just how it comes to me.
NARRATOR: Look at how their
lives have been transformed.
In four and a half months,
I've lost 30 plus pounds.
I'm watching myself
just melt away.
Becoming the new
me, the real me.
It has changed my life.
I owe her my life.
I am thrilled to
feel so much better
physically, mentally,
emotionally,
and therefore, spiritually.
In one week there was
something in my son's eyes,
something in his reaction.
And I saw it.
I said, there's a sparkle.
He doesn't have that
dullness anymore.
And one week later, I knew.
She also told us that in one
month, it'll all be a memory.
And then four weeks later,
it was just a memory.
Because I can see
it in their body,
that their body has the
health, it has the vitality,
it has the capability of
being able to make the switch,
if they will do it, and if
they have the practical tools.
The attainment of
physical health,
and vitality, and stamina, and
vibrancy, is not a mystery.
That's there for
every single person.
It's really amazing,
the type of person
that you are where you consider
this a privilege to help
people with their health.
And it's such a gift to
be able to sit with you,
and to have you impart your
beautiful information on all
of us.
I really appreciate you
being here, Caroline.
I really do.
Thank you so much.
Oh, thank you Lisa.
It's been wonderful.
LISA GARR: Filled with great
tips, and practical solutions,
and all sorts of great things.
So thank you so much.
And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Caroline Sutherland, or
share it with your friends,
go to GaiamTV.com.
There's a lot more
thought-provoking interviews
and inspirational
films on Gaiam TV.
So go sign up for a free
trial today at Gaiam TV.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]